## Operation Domain Modeling Environment


**Domain Modeling Editor** has been developed as a modeling environment. The graphical user interface is designed in such a way that the user can draw graphs on the screen almost as one would on paper. The vertices or elements and edges can be drawn by clicking and dragging the mouse. Elements icons are added in the toolbox for easy access. Also, nodes and edges can be easily moved to any position. The drawing panel is synchronized with the bottom left side tree. Element addition in one place either in the white drawing panel or in the left tree, it will be added in both the sections automatically. Variable can be attached with the nodes. And attached variables are shown in the variable table on the right top corner during any node selection from either of the trees. Also, a constraint can be added to the aspect node to restrict the choices of entities. Constraint is written using XPath query language. Like variable, constraint is also visible on the constraint table on the right side of the editor during aspect node selection. Domain Modeling Editor allows saving part of the designed model as a module for future use. That saved module can be reused in any project later. It has also the facility to validate the created model against axioms using predefined XML Schema. Validation result is displayed in the console window and for valid model XML and Schema is displayed in the bottom right display window. The editor’s export and import options increased the share ability of the designed models among researchers. The newly created or opened project name is displayed in the top left corner of the editor.

**Scenario Modelling Editor** has been developed as an interactive pruning tool. It also has a variable table for displaying variables or editing values of variables. Also, constraint table and console window work exactly the same way. Here also left side tree is synchronized with the white drawing panel. Nodes are also movable here. But here a new project can’t be created. Also, new elements can’t be added to the model in Scenario Modelling. Then, the main functionality of Scenario Modelling is pruning Domain Models to create pruned entity structure. After completing pruning of the created domain metamodel, executable scenario can be exported for target simulation environment by using a project specific XSLT file.

thank's
